Open Sourcing Incubator
Overview
What is the DEC and why was it created.
The Dallas Entrepreneur Center was created to serve the purpose of filling a series of gaps in the Dallas startup ecosystem. The first gap was that Dallas did not have a location where any entrepreneur at any stage could gain access to resources, space, events, mentoring, education, and capital in one location. In essence, Dallas did not have a resource center. Additionally, the Dallas startup ecosystem, one of the largest and most spread out geographic regions in the United States, did not have a concerted voice to communicate and promote the great things happening in the region to the rest of the world. The DEC builds relationships with traditional media outlets and online media publications around the country in an effort to connect them to real stories and major announcements coming out of the DFW startup community. The Dallas economy is fueled by banking, commerce, telecommunications, computer technology, energy, healthcare and medical research, transportation and logistics. Within our region, lives 18 Fortune 500 headquarters, 10,000 businesses have corporate headquarters here, and organizations such as Microsoft, PepsiCo, Samsung, and Ericsson have a major presence in the region. Additionally, our population makes up 6 million people and our economy is the sixth largest in the United States. Dallas is the fifth-largest market for self-employed workers with 19,000 new businesses starting here every year. But where do they all go? The DEC serves entrepreneurs in Dallas - providing a location where they can receive training, education, mentorship, promotion, and capital in order to equip and encourage the entrepreneurial community to be one of the best startup ecosystems in the world. 

What is an incubator.
Business incubators are organizations geared toward speeding up the growth and success of startup and early stage companies. They’re often a good path to capital from angel investors, state governments, economic-development coalitions and other investors.

Why create an incubator. 
An incubator serves many purposes and each founding team or organization must decide the purpose. Some incubators are created out of governmental support and desire to impact an industry or geographic region. Some incubators are created by cities or economic development groups to support job creation. Some incubators are created as non profits to support a growing startup community. Some are created by universities to support faculty, students, and alumni in pursuing technology commercialization and startups. And some incubators are created as for-profits as tools for supporting early stage deal flow into a fund or acquisition tool. Based on your desired structure and outcome, you will find many successful models to align with, learn from, and even partner with by engaging nationally with organizations like the National Business Incubation Association (www.nbia.org).

Incubator setup 
Vision
The process of visioning out your incubator is key. If the founders do not have  vision to couple with the passion of starting an incubator, they will struggle with conveying that vision to partners, funders, and entrepreneurs (i.e. the people who make your vision come to fruition). The vision is the 30,000 foot view of what you hope to achieve, how you plan to get there, and the key pieces that make it happen. For example, as mentioned earlier, the DEC's mission and vision are as follows: The DEC provides a location where startups can receive training, education, mentorship, promotion, and access to capital in order to equip and encourage the entrepreneurial community to be one of the best startup ecosystems in the world.

Business structure
The business structure can be extremely simple or complex. The reason you choose depends significantly upon who the key partners are, how the organization will be run, the core operations of the entity and the nature of the funding expected. Most incubators are created as separate 501(c)3 not-for-profit corporations, as the DEC is. We chose this structure for a few primary reasons: our mission was charitable fundamentally, our funders needed charitable contribution recognition for their donations, and in order to be seen as partner driven and a resource center. Many incubators are structured as 501(c)6 non profits as well. This structure is a business membership structure (think chamber of commerce or industry association). This non-profit status is easier and quicker to receive, but does not allow for individual donors to receive charitable contribution deductions for their donations. Some incubators are also structured as for-profit businesses. While there are many legal structures to consider for this structure, the legal team and operational needs of the organization will define the details. A topic rarely discussed is using multiple entity structures. For instance, for core operations a 501(c)3 could used to take in the money, incubate the companies, build the board, and pay the team. Coupled with the non-profit, a for-profit entity can be owned by the non-profit or by the team that does any of the following: owns equity in companies, invests in a fund structure, owns intellectual property, etc.

Assembling a team
When assembling a core team to run an incubator, its important to think about the core operations. Will the organization be event heavy, mentoring and programs heavy, investment heavy, or some other type of core operations. The first and most critical role is that of the CEO or Executive Director. The senior executive in charge of the incubator should be, if at all possible, someone who meets the following criteria: a successful entrepreneur, a community leader, a partner driven mindset, and strong delegation skills. The next few people will depend upon your needs. A VP of Programming or Incubation will setup, manage, and grow your core programs. This individual should possess strong project management skills, strong interpersonal skills, experience working hands on with entrepreneurs, and a strong network in the startup community. Another key individual is a utility player that can expand or contract with the needs of the organization. This person is known as the VP of Partnerships. The VP of Partnerships convenes partners, connects startups with capital, creates and manages programs that are adjacent to the incubation program, and manages mentors. The skills of this team member are strong relationship skills, strong fundraising skills, and a diverse network in the business and startup community.

Beyond the executive team, an office manager is a crucial player as your incubator expands and grows. This individual can deal with keeping the lights on, dealing with inflow/outflow of companies, assist with day to day office issues, and support events. Additionally, a full time events staff member could be brought on depending upon the size and quantity of events. Outside of the paid staff, a need for core support services are needed, like accounting, legal, communications, and PR. The best way to approach this, depending upon your legal structure, is to partner with sponsoring organizations that can receive unique benefits for their donation of time. Surrounding your team with experts in a given field allows for strategy to drive execution efficiently and expertly.

Building Boards of Directors and Advisors are crucial to any organization, especially a new organization. First, the Board of Directors is a core team of individuals that have a direct investment (time or money) in to the organization and should include at least one executive team member from the incubator. The Board should then be comprised of key individuals with targeted backgrounds like real estate, startups, venture capital, etc. who align with the vision and strategy of the organization. The Board of Advisors should be an ever growing group of committed, community and national leaders who desire to support the mission and goals of your organization, provide introductions and advice ad hoc, and help the organization by lending their names without committing to too much time. These should be targeted as well to ensure a diverse set of industry and operational experience is represented by expertise and recognized figures.

The final team that is often under recognized and appreciated is the team of mentors. Mentors provide hands on, day to day support of the companies within the incubator program and do so out of their desire to support entrepreneurs. The mentoring program is built around the needs of the companies in the incubator as are the mentors. Each mentor should be sought based on their ability to help a company in a given industry, in a given operational area, and/or at a given growth stage of a company. The example that we often give at the DEC is that our CEO provides roughly the same value to startup company as does Mark Cuban when a company is in the idea stage. At the stage where a company is scaling and targeting an industry Mark has expertise in, the value is no longer comparable. That is where true mentoring can be successful. 

Qualifying mentors 
There are many ways to judge, but you must begin with a high bar. Create an application, ask direct questions about backgrounds and expertise, and ensure that every mentor comes referenced from someone that is connected to your organization. If you have built a good team and good boards, the networks should generate a high enough quantity to move the ball forward. There is no perfect size of a group of mentors, but the group should be ever growing (as some will drop off) as new companies join your program.

Coordinating sponsors
Developing and launching a sponsorship strategy is key to engaging partners, discounted/free services, and financial sustainability for your incubator. The process begins with pre-determining a few things: what is the financial objective (break-even for staff, cover overhead for events, etc.), what is the appetite for sponsorships in the community, and what is the value you will provide. First, establishing a baseline financial objective is key. The DEC created its sponsor program initially around financial sustainability for the organization by understanding the numbers behind what it would take to cover the initial two staff members. Next, look at comparable organizations locally and nationally to understand what the appetite for sponsorships are and compare local sponsors' national involvement as a use case for engaging your organization locally. For example, if Microsoft supports incubators by providing small amounts of cash and large donations of hardware and software nationally, but isn't doing much locally, there could be an appetite to engage Microsoft in a partnership that leverages their brand. Finally, establishing a cost vs. benefit structure will help you align what you will deliver to sponsors. Remember, most of the time, sponsors are not donating money solely for the purpose of being good corporate citizens. An ROI must be established early.

Developing a sponsorship package with 3-5 sponsorship levels is crucial. Simplicity, clarify, and value are the key metrics of a sponsorship program. For instance, the DEC launched with one sponsorship level and has since expanded to a total of four. The first sponsorship level, Circle of Innovation, is our high level, high engagement, high value sponsorship level that is $25,000 per year in cash and services. We created this level for two reasons: if we acquired 12 sponsors we could be at financial sustainability and we wanted to work initially with targeted industry and service partners in an exclusive context to provide high value. Since, we have launched a $10,000, $5,000, and $1,000 sponsorship level each with a specific set of value. These were each created to target a specific set of sponsors with budget levels ($10k and $5k are common 'maximum' sponsors for local offices of large organizations and $1k is a common event level sponsorship that an executive can write off on his/her credit card). 

Each sponsorship is a process, negotiation, and often times custom contract. For example, you may negotiate a Circle of Innovation sponsorship from your law firm that is primarily cash, offer exclusivity and right of first refusal, and includes the law firm covering some basic legal services in a pro bono context for your organization.  In comparison, you may partner with a large hardware manufacturer to cover all of your hardware needs in your space (computers, servers, TVs, tablets, routers, etc.) and a smaller quantity of cash. Be flexible on how you get to the amount of value provided, but always hold strong on the level of the value.

Maintaining a sponsorship program is entirely up to you. Year 1 may net you 15 sponsors and $400,000 in cash, but unless you provide value, communicate regularly, and document how the relationship is beneficial to sponsorship decision makers, the next year may not net you as much in sponsorship. Be loyal to your sponsors by promoting them early and often, introducing/connecting them to other organizations, and ensuring your clients/members know about the value they provide.

Acquiring sponsors can be a long, relationship driven sales cycle, much like an enterprise software sale. Most often, there are not firms lining up to write $25,000 checks to unproven organizations. Remember that decision makers tend to make sponsorship decisions in the budgeting cycle (Q3 and Q4 of the prior year) and its important to be aware of this when starting your fundraising program. Do not, however, give up if the conversations are put on hold until the next budgeting cycle. One thing we have seen with large organizations is that budgets tend to have marketing or flexible dollars available throughout the year between $2,500 and $10,000. Often, towards the end of the year, if these dollars have not been spent, managers are looking to put the money to work.

What to look for in space
When preparing your incubator for launch, one of the most critical factors is the space itself. When designing the space, many factors must be accounted for, but knowing your budget and space needs are fundamental. The size of incubators ranges from a couple of thousand square feet to fifty thousand square feet. What you need will ultimately depend on your budget and desired scale. At the DEC we had a limited budget and knew that we could launch in a smaller location and scale up as needed so we began with 10,000 square feet. In our case, the layout is highly efficient for a larger quantity of desks and offices (75 and 15 respectively) but leaving little room for common areas and event space. Its important to know what other needs you may have, such as co-working space, cubicles, offices, open space for events, small and medium conference rooms, video production space, storage, coffee/food area, classrooms, etc. Remember that startups are flexible and can work with what they are given. Your programs will also dictate some of these things. For instance, if you plan to host training sessions, a classroom is critical. If you plan to host board meetings, a large conference room is key.

Other functional things to consider include access and security. Its important to remember that 24/7 access is key as entrepreneurs work different hours than most folks, but with that comes security issues. Having secure, key card access in off-hours, front desk support during business hours, lockable doors and drawers, and video surveillance all assist in keeping order and safety. The availability and access to power and internet is crucial. Ensuring that you over assume on needs for bandwidth is crucial as entrepreneurs are internet hogs, often using far more devices and keeping videos/music streaming all day. Wifi can work for your organization with the right quantity of access points and some basic security measures. 

In terms of day to day, its important that you provide some basics in terms of coffee, food, drinks, refrigeration, etc. We have chosen to cover unlimited coffee and snacks with some free caffeinated beverages and a keg of beer available for networking events weekly. Your organization may have limitations in providing alcohol, especially with a city or university run incubator so please be aware. 

The location of your incubator is also one of the more critical components of design and launch. The location boils down to a few criteria: proximity to startups or the existing startup community, access to food/entertainment, public transit access, and parking availability. Parking, for us, was crucial as we host weekly events and couldn't pay for parking for all of our companies.  

What online tools to use
Below is a list of inexpensive tools that we use that make life easier. The quicker you can get up and running on these, the simpler your process can be for launching.
Member communications, incubation progress, internal project management: Basecamp 
Online applications, incubator assessment form, mentor information forms, etc: Wufoo 
Community and mentor communications: Mailchimp (with integration from Wufoo)
Invoicing and billings: Quickbooks Online 
Scheduling in-person or phone sessions with interested startups: ScheduleOnce 
Scheduling office hours with investors or mentors: OHours
Scheduling conference rooms and coworking drop in: Liquidspace 
CMS: Wordpress 

Projecting financials. 
Insert table from Dropbox/TheDEC/Financials/Budget/DEC Budget (Third Tab)

Preparing for Launch
One of the first steps you will need to take in preparing for launch is around branding and messaging of your effort. Partnering with a PR firm to drive key messaging around statistics, themes, and value propositions will help to create language you can build your brand around. Use language from your vision/mission statement efforts as well. When branding your effort, think about every piece of the puzzle, who it touches, how it affects them, and how you want it to be conveyed. Working with a designer is a great first step once your messaging has been created so that they can help define initial constructs around the logo(s), programs, web and social media presence. Create a series of logos with common color schemes and components that could be used in many contexts. Create a series of creative images build around your brand for the web, print collateral, thank you cards, headers/footers for documents, slide decks, and signatures for email. Have around a dozen of standardized images to use. As programs are launched, created branded marketing materials around each program. 

Leading up to the launch, working with your PR firm to establish a media/press plan is crucial to getting the word out. Its important to understand who your desired audience is, what you would like to communicate to them, and your preferred mediums of communication. We chose to do a soft launch focused on Dallas/Fort Worth startups, universities, corporations, and capital. We used social media, local startup blogs, and local press publications to convey our messaging in a story format.

For a couple of months after the launch host weekly and then bi-monthly open houses targeted at showcasing current members, programs, and space. Offer free tours, coffee, and light snacks to anyone who want to attend. This strategy gets the space viewed by hundreds of people within a couple of months, will lead to new applications, and possible even add a few additional sponsors who could see the vision come to fruition.

It is, however, a risk to open your doors to an empty space! Nothing kills momentum more than looking at a hundred empty desks. Startup incubators succeed as much because of the people in them as by the programs for them. Therefore, targeting a dozen or so initial 'launch' companies will help fill the space out by putting 15 or 20 people in the space. Ask the initial startups to be available for the open houses (free coffee or beer!) and encourage them to share their story about why they selected to be located in your space. Within that initial group, its important to target diversity of industry, stage, and experience. We opened with 6 or 7 companies in our space, but one of those was a highly successful, serial entrepreneur with a new venture, team, and early funding in place that added credibility. Find startups that are known in the community and approach them about being in your space for the initial months of their new venture.

Initially, communication is difficult when you are new and growing. Therefore, establishing regular community newsletters from day one and a consistent social media presence will help establish your baseline that can be expanded as your scale. 

What to look for in startups
One of the most common questions we get from startups and partners is "what are you looking for in a startup?". What we often tell them is that our decision criteria are as objective as we can make the, but ultimately come down to a subjective, gut feel. The objective criteria, however, need to be communicated openly and concisely so as to ensure companies know where they stand from the beginning and to make your inflow process more efficient. We focus, objectively, on a couple of criteria: stage and trajectory. Regarding stage, we believe startups can fit into one of only a few stages: Idea, Idea+, Pre-Revenue, Revenue, and Growth Stage. At the DEC, we incubate companies primarily in the Idea+ and Pre-Revenue stages, but house companies of all stages. Idea+ is a crucial area for most entrepreneurs, which is why we target it. To us, an entrepreneur hasn't started until they go from Idea to Idea+ which entails taking an idea, creating a plan of action, putting what little personal/friends & family capital they can towards it, and jumping in full time (or as close to full time as they can). This is where a startup truly begins. Regarding trajectory, our other objective criteria, we target companies that have the potential to be high growth and are/have been making progress.

Additionally, we subjectively evaluate eight criteria: Team, Business Structure, Community Engagement, Product, Value Proposition, Pricing/Revenue Model, Financials, and Cultural Fit. 

When looking at the team we focus on a few key areas: industry experience of key team members, startup experience, reputation in the community, skills and gaps, and history of success/growth. While many early stage companies do not have all these figured out, the ability for the core team to meet some of these criteria are historically huge factors in the success of a company. If a potential member does not have all of these at least in a plan of action with timelines, they need direction.

The business structure component involves evaluating the legal and operational structures that have been into place as well as whether the team has started to build a company rather than just a product. For instance, has the team evaluated the market, competition, manufacturing, and other key strategic factors? Have they properly installed a board of directors, industry advisors, strategic partners? Have they built accounting and financial processes? Do they have a sales pipeline, strategy, and process for acquiring customers? Have they filed for their legal status as a corporation, for intellectual property, and are they setup online with web and social media presences? These questions, among others, should be easily answered and documented.

Community engagement means many things to many people. At the DEC we believe that everyone in the community has something to offer and the individuals should have a mindset of 'giving before you get'. We believe, as do many others across the U.S. that communities are built by individuals committing time, energy, and passion, therefore, we evaluate potential members on their current and past engagement in the startup community or a community they choose to invest in (social, religious, industry, etc.).

The product or service offering is a crucial component to any startup and we spend significant time evaluating this section. Evaluate products and services by looking at: stage, differentiation, development roadmap, and value proposition.

Coupled with the details behind the product is the go to market plan (or sales strategy). Look closely at how a company plans to sell their product or service, what channels, who will sell for them, how they will sell, what the competition is doing, the size and makeup of key markets, the timeline of closing a sell, the sales ecosystem, and customer validation.

While building and selling a great product requires a good strategy and great execution, the pricing and revenue model will define the financial structures of a company. Spend a greater amount of time evaluating and challenging pricing and revenue assumptions by comparing value vs. price for key competitors, looking at industry standards for revenue generation, and by challenging traditional assumptions on how revenue is generated.

Developed from many of the aforementioned sections, the financials are a crucial and under appreciated aspect of a company's growth path. Without sound assumptions and a firm understanding of costs and cash flows, a company can drown in its own success. Work with the startup to understand and challenge key assumptions while requiring all companies to present a solid cash flow projection that can be used to derive other financial statements. In the world of startups, cash is king. 

Finally, the cultural fit of the company and team are crucial to the success of your incubator. For many reasons, the attitude and approach that each team takes to their startup can have a huge impact on the culture of the organization. From day one, seek out people that align with your vision, want to 'give before they get', that are always willing to help out a peer, and that will speak positively about community efforts at large. 

So, you may ask 'how do I learn all of this without bombarding a company with too many questions?' The reality is, each company will approach engaging with your incubator differently and you will communicate your vision and reasons to each of them for joining your program. 

What to offer
Incubation Program
The incubator program is your foundational program as an incubator and the companies that go through it will ultimately be your measuring stick to investors, partners, and the broader startup community. We approach the program in process driven, but still flexible mindset with four phases: Startup Assessment, Startup Benchmark, Mentoring, and Startup Curriculum.

Startup Assessment
The startup assessment occurs after a company has applied, been interviewed and officially been invited to go through the program. Each incubated company at the DEC completes a questionnaire with dozens of detailed questions about their company that align with our evaluation criteria mentioned above. Once the questionnaire has been received, our team meets with company cofounders to walk through the questions, challenge assumptions, and begin to construct the Startup Benchmark based on the conversation.

Startup Benchmark
The Startup Benchmark is our key working document and action plan for incubated companies. The plan is customized to each incubated member, but with the same key components: Feasibility, Team, Business Structure, Business Model, Go To Market, Product Design, Customer Development, Marketing/PR, Online Marketing, Funding, Financials, and Community. Within each of the aforementioned sections, we present a summary of assumptions and recommendations, suggested readings and resources, and 2-4 milestones with tactics and timelines over the next few months that will help them progress the company forward. At the end of the document, we summarize additional resources and recommendations for the company including DEC Education Classes, Open Pitch Program, Mentor Recommendations, and Connections we commit to provide to the company as specific milestones have been met. This final document is sent to the company within 10 days of entering program, followed up by an in-person meeting to discuss the action plan and milestones. Regular check points are sought every 4-6 weeks on milestones as well. 

Startup Curriculum
Tailor your curriculum by constantly creating, iterating, and testing classes. We have a core series of classes that run quarterly for each company to progress through and then try a new class either as a one off or to add to the queue of quarterly classes. These regular classes are two hours in length and taught by community leaders, mentors, advisors and sponsors. Our current class line up is listed below in education.

Space/Real Estate Leasing
As an incubator, you may choose to structure your real estate in many different ways. We have chosen to create three primary levels of membership: incubated, dedicated, non-dedicated. 

Incubated membership is for only those companies that seek to be in the program and that we accept. Their price points are $350 per month per cubicle and $600 per month per office.

Dedicated membership is for those companies that wish to be located at the DEC, but do not wish or are not a current fit for the incubator program. Dedicated membership price points are $300 per month per cubicle and $550 per month per office.

Non Dedicated memberships are essentially co-working memberships for those companies that are too early or simply do not need dedicated space. At the DEC, we designate about 10 seats in our space for drop in/non dedicated members to come and work. The price point for non dedicated is $200 per month or $20 per day.

Education classes/programs
Providing education and training that is practical, applied, and hands-on is a great tool to assist your members and engage the startup community.

Below were our initial classes:

Intro to the Dallas Startup Ecosystem
Free orientation to help new and aspiring entrepreneurs learn how to plug in to the Dallas startup scene. Get the inside scoop from one of the local community leaders to get acquainted with the exciting entrepreneur scene in Dallas. You'll learn where the entrepreneurs hang out, what investors are active in town, what blogs to read, where to talk to media outlets, where to find talent, and more. 

Objectives: 
Startup growth in Dallas
Why doing business is good in Dallas
What we do well
Big companies you need to know
Top startups you need to know
VC’s, angels and media
Accelerators, Incubators and Coworking spaces
Networking events
Other ways to get involved
Q&A

Intro to Raising Startup Capital
This class will walk you through the core fundraising types: Self Funding, Friends and Family, Angel, Bank Loans, Venture Capital, Private Equity, Crowdfunding and Customers. Students will walk through term sheets in a negotiation. Learn what an investor is looking for from the entrepreneur. 

Objectives: 
To provide basic direction and strategies around fundraising for startups.
To educate startups on pitfalls and common practices in term sheet negotiation.
To provide theory and structure behind each stage of the fundraising lifecycle.

Will it Work
In this class, you'll learn how to talk directly to stakeholders - from potential customers to investors to advisors. Understand factors that will have a large financial impact on your business and learn how to mitigate risk. Students will work through the key elements necessary to sustain a business and how to ensure the company stays focused on key factors for sustainable growth and success. Learn the tasks that must be preformed in your business before getting to your first customer. 

Objectives: 
To establish basic direction on uncovering a potential opportunity, developing a plan, and successfully implementing a short-term strategy for long term results.
To understand the basics of the competitive landscape in a market, potential threats and identifying differentiating factors.
To provide basic direction on conducting a feasibility analysis for new product or service ideas.
To determine the steps from idea to launch for a company and understanding what makes a company a company versus just an interesting idea.

Building Your Startup Team
This class will walk you through the do's and dont's when looking for core team members. Learn how companies with a strong company culture succeed in finding great talent and how small startups can achieve the same affects. Understand the importance of advisors, mentors, board members and cofounders. You will walk away with ideas on how to create a strong company culture and understand why that will benefit an entire organization as a result. 

Objectives: 
To obtain a basic understanding of finding and hiring a successful core team for a given company.
To understand the important elements that make a strong team and how to attract the right people for the team. (this is focused around cofounders, advisors, mentors, and board members)
To establish a clear formula founders can follow to become good, effective leaders.
To highlight methods a company can take to create a positive environment that inspires productivity and loyalty from employees.
To understand the importance that creating a good culture for your advisors and employees.

Setting up a Business Structure
This class will help early stage teams understand the most common business structure (Sole Proprietorship, Partnership, Corporations, and Limited Liability Company) and help to determine why that structure best suits the company's needs. Get an understanding of the key decisions that need to be addressed in developing and launching a company through documents such as Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws, etc. Explore indicators that companies can look at in order to decide if they need trademarks/patents. 

Objectives: 
To obtain an understanding of the different types of business structures along with their respective strengths and weaknesses.
To help companies decide which structure best fits their specific needs.
To highlight the importance of trademarks/patents and other beneficial legal protections.

Online Marketing and Campaign Optimization
In today's marketing world you shouldn't spend marketing dollars unless you know that they're working. This class focuses on the importance of online marketing, and the effectiveness and efficiency of an online marketing plan. Learn the right way to track, analyze and utilize data that you're finding through online marketing mechanisms to rebuild and modify plans today, and learn how to create the most effective and optimized marketing plan available. 

Objectives: 
To obtain an understanding of online marketing programs including search marketing, display advertising, site optimization, mobile marketing, and online analytics. 
To provide key principles for understanding online analytics and key measurements.
To identify target customers and use online marketing and campaign tools to acquire, convert and retain those customers.
To establish best practices for interpreting and developing reporting, segmenting visitor information for improved experiences and identifying indicators used to meet KPIs and business ROI.
To introduce the components of an effective site optimization program: A/B and multivariate testing, target audience segmentation and data-based personalization for online customer experiences. 

Go To Market Strategy
This class will walk you through the steps for creating a go-to-market plan of action, exploring the key elements of a go to market strategy: scope, scale and budget. How do you stay prioritized and stay focused? Determine what needs to go into an MVP and learn how to create pricing models and time to revenue scenarios. Learn the importance of iterating and how to constantly work to better serve your customers. Explore quantifying the market need - what is available vs. what is addressable. 

Objectives: 
To obtain an understanding of current customer perceptions, behaviors and needs.
To provide structure behind creating a brand value proposition.
To identify target customers and product or services portfolio for each target customer.
To establish strategies for promoting and selling your products or services to target customers.
To discuss and demonstrate the importance of MVP (minimum viable product) and the importance for getting to market with a product and then refining it.
To understand the difference between nice-to-have and have-to-have.

Product Design
This class will walk you through the design process for building better products. This class is for the non-designer, to understand the importance of creating great user experiences. Learn how to lead a design team to stay focused on the greater vision of your company through clear communication, business goals and ease of use. 

Objectives: 
To establish a clear understanding of the product value proposition before diving in to the design process. 
To learn how to build a functional spec and business requirements through product roadmaps and wireframes.  
To establish strategies for building out content strategy - both internal and external. 
To discuss and demonstrate the importance of wireframing, user flow and prototyping before going into the actual visual design and development.
To walk away with a better understanding as to why better designed products succeed, and learn how to set the bar higher for your own product design. 

Understanding Financials
This class will walk you through a series of financial constructs needed to run a successful business. Understand key revenue calculations and expense assumptions over a multi-year period. Tie in income statement numbers as a point to showcase factors that affect cash flow such as receivables, payables, and taxes. Walk through a balance sheet and understand the importance of this and other documents for growing your business. 

Objectives: 
To obtain an understanding of core financial constructs needed to project cash flow, revenue, expenses, income statement (pro forma) and a balance sheet.
To highlight pitfalls and key issues to address in projections.
To establish best practices for calculating key assumptions associated with startup financial projections.

Marketing/PR
This class will teach you how to develop a comprehensive marketing mix plan (including marketing, social media, etc.). Discuss what is truly newsworthy material and learn how to identify the appropriate communication channels and publications. Learn how to position your organization and then craft your company message, discuss finding your company voice and how to keep the message clear and concise. 

Objectives: 
To obtain a basic understanding of branding a new product or service to people who care and want to get involved.
To establish a clear formula for building your marketing and PR foundation using best practices. (make sure to talk through price, promotion, product, and people)
To understand the difference behind Marketing, Social Media and PR and to explain the role and importance of both.
To highlight inexpensive marketing and PR tactics startups can leverage to grow brand awareness with limited resources and a tight budget.

Access to capital 
Providing a platform and tools for helping your companies with access to growth capital will net immense results. While each ecosystem and region has different types and quantities of capital available to startups, it is important to create and nurture relationships locally with as many sources as available. At least one team member of your incubator should possess, acquire, and manage relationships with the investor community as well as with local banks and small business networks in order to be a resource to your members. This individual should also have a firm understanding of the types of capital available and key decision criteria (stage, size, industry, amount, etc.) of each source of capital in order to make the appropriate introductions.

Office Hours 
A unique way to leverage partners, expertise, and sponsors is to host office hours. Launch an office hours program early on targeted towards providing members with regular access to capital sources in a safe, open door context. The program can evolve and expand to include mentors, industry experts, and visiting entrepreneurs and organizations from across the U.S. 

We structure our program as simply as possible. If a mentor or investor wishes to host regular office hours, we find a day and block of time that works for them regularly over 3-6 months and hold that spot exclusively. For instance, if a local angel network is available the second Tuesday of the month in the afternoons (1-5 p.m.) we will host them in the slot and schedule 30 minute increments of time for them with members.

Customer/Industry Partner Introductions
Being an incubator also means being a resource center and connector. Often times, the network of the staff at the incubator is leveraged to make connections for their members. We often will see a need with a member that can't be met by a mentor or investor, but rather a potential supplier, development, manufacturer, vendor, customer, or partner where will make an introduction that is intended to be mutual to both parties. There is a risk of 'over-introducing', so be clear to both parties what the expectation is of the introduction and steer away from introducing members to people that are not directly beneficial.

PR
Public relations and promotion are fundamental aspects of the our mission, therefore, we have emphasized and promoted a culture of sharing wins. When a member or startup in the community raises capital, launches a product, hires a key executive, wins an award, or has an exit, we want to promote that success both within our region and to the broader national startup scene. This effort will contribute to the support and promotion of others and as we like to quote here at the DEC, "a rising tide lifts all ships."

Community touch points/Being a Resource Center
Being an incubator in your ecosystem also means being a resource center. While you may have limited space, programs, and bandwidth, its important to have an open culture. There are many ways to practice what you preach. For example, when a company applies to be in your space but they are not a good fit, its important to provide specific feedback on why, make introductions to other resources that can assist them, and convey what they could do to get in if they reapply in the future. Keep an open door policy and make sure they are included on mailing lists that announce community events, opportunities and new programs in the community that could be beneficial to them. 

Pitch Program
One of the most underrated skills is that of pitching. Whole accelerator programs are built on pitching, but not everyone has access to these programs. We built a small scale, repeatable program with three key phases that targets the primary pitches every startup needs. Over a three week period, companies meet in an open classroom and learn about the two main pitches, then practice. Week one entails walking through the fundaments of an elevator pitch, creating a first cut, then pitching it in front of the class. Week two entails each company giving a more honed version of their elevator pitch to begin, followed by a presentation and discussion on building a ten minute investor pitch. Week three involves each company giving their ten minute pitch to the class, with specific feedback. These programs work best in small groups of 5-10 people where each person and can both learn and add value.

Engaging Universities
Philosophically, the most successful and dynamic ecosystems in the U.S. have elite universities nearby and deeply engaged. For instance, Silicon Valley, Boston, New York, Chicago, and Austin all have deep engagement from nationally recognized schools. Therefore, engagement with local universities should be fundamental and there are many ways to program around them. Below are a few examples:

Have incubator staff and companies teach classes or guest lecture on campus
Use professors to teach courses
Offer education discounts to your events, programs, and incubator
Partner with a university's entrepreneurship or tech commercialization program to offer incubation or classes
Create a class at a local university focused on lean startup processes and incubate students who graduate

Executing Education Programs
There are many steps involved each class, but we've learned that a significant portion of designing, finding instructors, operating and marketing the class are processes that can be replicated with efficiency.

Your instructors will likely come from one of the following sources: sponsors, investors, incubator staff, mentors, entrepreneurs, and local startup community leaders. Its important to remember that  good enough now is better than perfect later. Seeking out someone who is up and coming in the community is also a great way to provide a leadership opportunity for a future leader.

The curriculum for each class should targeted towards pre determined themes, objectives, and exercises while fitting within a two hour time frame. We recommend outlining each class for the instructor and in some cases building template slides. With your team doing most of the prep work, finding quality instructors who can fill in the content, lead discussions, and share anecdotes become much easier.

Preparing for each class involves setting up an event registration page on Eventbrite (or comparable registration tool) with a description and outline followed up by promoting the event through social media channels, mass communication, and through partners. The day of the class, your team should provide an open classroom or conference room with A/V, pens and paper for notes, snacks, drinks, and name tags. After each class, we recommend surveying all participants with 5 to 10 questions about the content and speaker in order to improve productivity.
